head     1.1;
branch   1.1.1;
access   ;
symbols  initial:1.1.1.1 initial:1.1.1;
locks    ; strict;
comment  @# @;


1.1
date     98.01.29.19.46.24;  author fox;  state Exp;
branches 1.1.1.1;
next     ;

1.1.1.1
date     98.01.29.19.46.24;  author fox;  state Exp;
branches ;
next     ;


desc
@@



1.1
log
@Initial revision
@
text
@<html>
<title>Phone call J. Kaplan</title>

<body>
<h2>Conversation with Jonathan Kaplan, Geoworks</h2>

Wed. 2/7/96:

<p>I gave Jonathan Kaplan a 5-minute overview of proxy-based mobile
computing, told him about our prototype proxies, and explained the
relationship we have with Randy's group (the driving factor for coming
up with the right API for network adaptation).</p>

<p>
GeoWorks is <i>very</i> interested in what we are up to.  They
understand the proxy concept and the Three Orthogonal Benefits (BW mgmt,
representation mgt, addressing client HW limitations).  They have put
together a small team to investigate what we are doing and think about
commercialized proxy support in GeoWorks.
</p>

<p>
They have no code yet, but they have some preliminary specs for a proxy
service that provides "smart disconnected operation" wherein
operations that get interrupted by disconnection get intelligently
resumed later.  It sounds like Rover's queued RPC, but their model is
built entirely around HTTP/HTML.  (They have a conscious aim to remain
"compatible with" HTTP/HTML, though given that Netscape basically
controls those things, it's not clear what "compatible" will mean.)  I
explained that we are designing our API more abstractly because we know
how to glue appropriate back-ends onto applications; e.g. a client-side
HTTP proxy that speaks HTTP to the browser, but GloMop to the proxy.
</p>

<p>
According to Jonathan, about 80% of what I explained is stuff that they
have thought about and agree is important.  (I would guess the other 20%
is refinement in the GloMop sense, and network adaptation to conditions
other than complete disconnection.)  Although they've done much less
hacking on this than we have, they believe they're in a pretty good
position to do widespread technology transfer by putting support for
this in the OS.</p>

<p> A reasonable next step might be for some of us to meet with the
technical people they have working on this to get a more detailed view
of each others' ideas.  Each side would have an informal, 10-15 minute
prepared presentation about what we've done so far (esp. Steve's
"problems with streams to PDAs").  This would expose implicit
assumptions, identify areas of obvious overlap and collaboration, and
show us what (if anything) we need to be doing differently to effect
technology transfer.  
</p>

<p>We should call Jonathan or product manager Lewis Lau (sp?) around
next Tuesday 2/13.
</p>

</body>
</html>
@


1.1.1.1
log
@GloMOp bibliographies, meetings, etc, re-imported into GloMop CVS
archive on full-sail
@
text
@@
