head     1.1;
branch   1.1.1;
access   ;
symbols  initial:1.1.1.1 initial:1.1.1;
locks    ; strict;
comment  @# @;


1.1
date     96.11.19.01.17.22;  author fox;  state Exp;
branches 1.1.1.1;
next     ;

1.1.1.1
date     96.11.19.01.17.22;  author fox;  state Exp;
branches ;
next     ;


desc
@@



1.1
log
@Initial revision
@
text
@							DRAFT 7/13/95



BEFORE YOU CLICK ON THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS DOCUMENT,
CAREFULLY READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT.  BY
CLICKING ON THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON, YOU ARE CONSENTING TO BE BOUND BY AND
ARE BECOMING A PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ALL OF
THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, CLICK THE "DO NOT ACCEPT" BUTTON AND THE
INSTALLATION PROCESS WILL NOT CONTINUE.

END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

GRANT.  Subject to the provisions contained herein, Digital Equipment
Corporation ("Digital") hereby grants you a non-exclusive license to
use its accompanying proprietary software product and associated
documentation ("Software") free of charge pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.

You are not entitled to support or telephone assistance in connection
with your use of the Software.

SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION.  Digital shall furnish the Software to you
electronically or on media in source code form.  This license does not
grant you any right to any enhancement or update to the Software and
Documentation.

USE RESTRICTIONS.  You may use, copy, modify, and distribute the
Software in source code or object code form, subject to the following
conditions:

	(1) If the Software is modified, any Software containing
modifications must prominently state in the modified product or
documentation (i) that it has been modified, (ii) the identity of the
person or entity that made the modifications, and (iii) the date the
modifications were made.

	(2) Each copy of the Software made by you shall be subject to
the terms of this Agreement and shall contain all of Digital's notices
regarding copyrights, trademarks and other proprietary rights as
contained in the Software originally provided to you.

	(3) The Software may not be transferred to any third party
unless such third party receives a copy of this Agreement and agrees
to be bound by all of its terms and conditions.

TITLE.  Title, ownership rights, and intellectual property rights in
and to the Software shall remain in Digital and/or its suppliers. The
Software is protected by the copyright laws of the United States and
international copyright treaties.
 
CONTENT.  Title, ownership rights, and intellectual property rights in
and to the content accessed through the Software is the property of
the applicable content owner and may be protected by applicable
copyright or other law.  This License gives you no rights to such
content.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.  Since the Software is provided free of
charge, the Software is provided on an "AS IS" basis, without warranty
of any kind, including without limitation the warranties of
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and
non-infringement.  The entire risk as to the quality and performance
of the Software is borne by you.  Should the Software prove defective,
you, and not Digital assume the entire cost of any service and repair.
This disclaimer of warranty constitutes an essential part of the
agreement.

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL
THEORY, TORT, CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL DIGITAL OR ITS SUPPLIERS
RESELLERS, OR LICENSEES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY
CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,
STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF DIGITAL SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY CLAIM BY ANY OTHER
PARTY.

EXPORT CONTROLS.  You may not download or otherwise export or reexport
the Software or any underlying information or technology except in
full compliance with all United States and other applicable laws and
regulations.  By downloading or using the Software, you are agreeing
to the foregoing.

TERMINATION.  Digital may terminate this Agreement at any time.  Upon
any termination of this Agreement, you shall immediately discontinue
the use of the Software and shall within ten (10) days return to
Digital or destroy all copies of the Software.  You may also terminate
this Agreement at any time by destroying the Software and all copies
thereof.

MISCELLANEOUS.  This Agreement represents the complete and exclusive
statement of the agreements concerning this license between the
parties.  It may be amended only by a writing executed by both
parties.  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable for any reason, such provision shall be reformed only to
the extent necessary to make it enforceable, and such decision shall
not affect the enforceability (i) of such provision under other
circumstances or (ii) of the remaining provisions hereof under all
circumstances.  Headings shall not be considered in interpreting this
Agreement.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under
the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, except as governed by
Federal law.  This Agreement will not be governed by the United
Nations Convention of Contracts for the International Sale of Goods,
the application of which is hereby expressly excluded.

U.S. Government Restricted Rights.  Use, duplication or disclosure by
the Government is subject to restrictions set forth in subparagraphs
(a) through (d) of the Commercial Computer-Restricted Rights clause at
FAR 52 227-19 when applicable, or in subparagraph (c) (1) (ii) of the
Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS
252.227-7013, and in similar clauses in the NASA FAR Supplement.
Contractor/manufacturer is Digital Equipment Corporation



@


1.1.1.1
log
@
@
text
@@
